
UNI OF MINNESOTA
================
About this Course
 
Software is quickly becoming integral part of human life as we see more and more automation and technical advancements.
Just like we expect car to work all the time and can't afford to break or reboot unexpectedly, software industry needs to continue to learn better way to build software if it were to become integral part of human life.

In this course,  you will get an overview of
  how software teams work?
  What processes they use?
  What are some of the industry standard methodologies?
  What are pros and cons of each?

You will learn enough to have meaningful conversation around software development processes.


After completing this course, a learner will be able to 

1) Apply core software engineering practices at conceptual level for a given problem. 
2) Compare and contrast traditional, agile, and lean development methodologies at high level.  These include Waterfall, Rational Unified Process, V model, Incremental, Spiral models and overview of agile mindset 
3) Propose a methodology best suited for a given situation
 
 Offered by University of Minnesota

The University of Minnesota is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research.
Located at the heart of one of the nation’s most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities,students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul
benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.



Syllabus - What you will learn from this course




Week 1 - Software development processes : Part 1    6 hours to complete

In this module and next one, we will learn about various software development processes at a high level to understand what is involved in each of these processes. In this module, we will cover Requirements and Architecture.

11 videos (Total 69 min), 1 reading, 9 quizzes
11 videos

Why Take This Course?			3m
Motivation and Course Intro		3m
What software development looks like	9m
Why do we need requirements?		4m
Requirements vs Specification		4m
Non-functional Requirements		3m

WRSPM7m
WRSPM Model: Real-world Example		7m
Software Architecture: Definition	7m
Software Architecture: Models		13m
Software Architecture: Process		5m


1 reading
Welcome to the course			5m

9 practice exercises
What software development looks like	30m
Why do we need requirements?		30m
Requirements vs Specification		30m
Non-functional Requirements		30m
WRSPM Quiz				30m

Software Architecture: Definition3	0m
Software Architecture Models		30m
Software Architecture: Process		30m
Requirements and Architecture		30m


Week 2 - Software Development Processes : Part 2   6 hours to complete

In this module, we will learn about processes that are used to implement the software, verify and validate the software, deploy the software and maintain the software.

12 videos (Total 75 min)

12 videos
Software Design: Introduction		6m
Software Design: Modularity		4m
Software Design: Coupling		4m
Software Design: Cohesion		4m

Implementation	 			4m
Deployment				4m
Deployment: Rollback			3m
Deployment: Cutover Strategies		9m
Software Testing: Introduction		9m
Software Testing: Definitions		7m
Software Testing: Strategies		11m
Software Testing: Perspectives		5m

10 practice exercises

Software Design: Introduction		30m
Software Design: Modularity		30m
Software Design: Coupling		30m
Software Design: Cohesion		30m
Implementation	 			30m
Deployment				30m
Deployment: Rollback			30m
Deployment: Cutover Strategies		30m
Software Testing: Introduction3		0m
Design, Implementation, and Testing	30m


Week 3 - Software Development Models: Traditional Models  5 hours to complete

In this module we will learn about various traditional models like waterfall, RUP, Incremental, and Spiral models.

9 videos (Total 73 min)
9 videos


Software Development Models		8m
Waterfall Model				6m
V-Model	  				3m
Sashimi Model				4m
Incremental Models			4m
Unified Process and its Variants	13m
Spiral Model	    			9m
Phase Gates / Stage Gates		8m
Applying Software Development Models	13m

4 practice exercises

Waterfall methods			30m
Waterfall and Incremental
    Software Development Models		30m
Unified and Spiral Processes		30m
Traditional Software Development Models	35m


Week 4 - Software Development Models: Agile and Lean   5 hours to complete 

In this module, we will learn about agile and modern techniques of software development. We will also learn about techniques that helps you learn faster about your market, your users, and your product.

9 videos (Total 58 min), 2 readings, 4 quizzes
9 videos

Why Agile?				4m
Agile Manifesto and Principles		7m
Agile Frameworks    			3m
Scrum					8m
Kanban					9m
Agile and Lean Summary			2m

Lean Startup   				14m
Model Selection: When to use which model 6m
What Next?	      	     	   	 41s

2 readings

Watch Agile Manifesto Video		5m
Video - Agile Manifesto Explained	30m

3 practice exercises
Agile Mindset				20m
Agile Frameworks and models		30m
Agile & Lean Software Development	30m


 
