 
About this Course
 
Software is quickly becoming integral part of human life as we see more and more automation and technical advancements. Just like we expect car to work all the time and can't afford to break or reboot unexpectedly, software industry needs to continue to learn better way to build software if it were to become integral part of human life.

In this course,  you will get an overview of  how software teams work? What processes they use?  What are some of the industry standard methodologies? What are pros and cons of each?  You will learn enough to have meaningful conversation around software development processes.

After completing this course, a learner will be able to 
1) Apply core software engineering practices at conceptual level for a given problem. 
2) Compare and contrast traditional, agile, and lean development methodologies at high level.  These include Waterfall, Rational Unified Process, V model, Incremental, Spiral models and overview of agile mindset 
3) Propose a methodology best suited for a given situation
 
 Offered by University of Minnesota

The University of Minnesota is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Located at the heart of one of the nation’s most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities, students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.

 Syllabus - What you will learn from this course

Week 1 - Software development processes : Part 1
6 hours to complete

In this module and next one, we will learn about various software development processes at a high level to understand what is involved in each of these processes. In this module, we will cover Requirements and Architecture.

11 videos (Total 69 min), 1 reading, 9 quizzes
11 videos
Why Take This Course?3m
Motivation and Course Intro3m
What software development looks like9m
Why do we need requirements?4m
Requirements vs Specification4m
Non-functional Requirements3m
WRSPM7m
WRSPM Model: Real-world Example7m
Software Architecture: Definition7m
Software Architecture: Models13m
Software Architecture: Process5m
1 reading
Welcome to the course5m
9 practice exercises
What software development looks like30m
Why do we need requirements?30m
Requirements vs Specification30m
Non-functional Requirements30m
WRSPM Quiz30m
Software Architecture: Definition30m
Software Architecture Models30m
Software Architecture: Process30m
Requirements and Architecture30m


Week 2 - Software Development Processes : Part 2
6 hours to complete

In this module, we will learn about processes that are used to implement the software, verify and validate the software, deploy the software and maintain the software.
12 videos (Total 75 min)
12 videos
Software Design: Introduction6m
Software Design: Modularity4m
Software Design: Coupling4m
Software Design: Cohesion4m
Implementation4m
Deployment4m
Deployment: Rollback3m
Deployment: Cutover Strategies9m
Software Testing: Introduction9m
Software Testing: Definitions7m
Software Testing: Strategies11m
Software Testing: Perspectives5m
10 practice exercises
Software Design: Introduction30m
Software Design: Modularity30m
Software Design: Coupling30m
Software Design: Cohesion30m
Implementation30m
Deployment30m
Deployment: Rollback30m
Deployment: Cutover Strategies30m
Software Testing: Introduction30m
Design, Implementation, and Testing30m


Week 3 - Software Development Models: Traditional Models
5 hours to complete

In this module we will learn about various traditional models like waterfall, RUP, Incremental, and Spiral models.
9 videos (Total 73 min)
9 videos
Software Development Models8m
Waterfall Model6m
V-Model3m
Sashimi Model4m
Incremental Models4m
Unified Process and its Variants13m
Spiral Model9m
Phase Gates / Stage Gates8m
Applying Software Development Models13m
4 practice exercises
Waterfall methods30m
Waterfall and Incremental Software Development Models30m
Unified and Spiral Processes30m
Traditional Software Development Models35m


Week 4 - Software Development Models: Agile and Lean
5 hours to complete 

In this module, we will learn about agile and modern techniques of software development. We will also learn about techniques that helps you learn faster about your market, your users, and your product.
9 videos (Total 58 min), 2 readings, 4 quizzes
9 videos
Why Agile?4m
Agile Manifesto and Principles7m
Agile Frameworks3m
Scrum8m
Kanban9m
Agile and Lean Summary2m
Lean Startup14m
Model Selection: When to use which model?6m
What Next?41s
2 readings
Watch Agile Manifesto Video5m
Video - Agile Manifesto Explained30m
3 practice exercises
Agile Mindset20m
Agile Frameworks and models30m
Agile & Lean Software Development30m
Reviews
4.7
343 reviews

    5 stars
    76.47%
    4 stars
    19.55%
    3 stars
    1.98%
    2 stars
    0.66%
    1 star
    1.32%

TOP REVIEWS FROM SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES AND METHODOLOGIES
by MCOct 25, 2020

I really enjoyed the course and learned many new things that i was not aware about. The instructors were helpful and easy to understand. Peer review assignments were very interesting to me. Thank you.
by LPApr 17, 2020

Very nice course that provides good insight on software development practices and common problems. It provides also some insights on project management, highlighting pros and cons of different models.
by TKFeb 18, 2018

Very interesting and engaging course on Software Development Processes and Methodologies. Good both as a first contact course or as a mean of refreshing your memory on processes and methodologies.
by MWMay 24, 2018

Week 4 assignment. I kept going back to my submission to see if it’s been graded since I never got any email verifications. Now it says I’ve resubmitted the asisngment. Which I haven’t done.
About the Software Development Lifecycle Specialization

This Specialization is designed for people who are new to software engineering. It's also for those who have already developed software, but wish to gain a deeper understanding of the underlying context and theory of software development practices.

At the end of this Specialization, we expect learners to be able to: 1.) Build high-quality and secure software using SDLC methodologies such as agile, lean, and traditional/waterfall. 2.) Analyze a software development team's SDLC methodology and make recommendations for improvements. 3.) Compare and contrast software development methodologies with respect to environmental, organizational, and product constraints.
SHOW ALL contextSHOW ALL
Software Development Lifecycle
Start Today with a 7-Day Free Trial

This Course Plus the Full Specialization
Shareable Certificates
Self-Paced Learning Option
Course Videos & Readings
Practice Quizzes
Graded Assignments with Peer Feedback
Graded Quizzes with Feedback
Graded Programming Assignments
57,537 already enrolled
You can audit this course for free. When you audit a course, you can access the course materials without graded assignments or the ability to earn a certificate.
Shareable on
LinkedIn
You can share your Course Certificates in the Certifications section of your LinkedIn profile, on printed resumes, CVs, or other documents.
Coursera Plus
Get this course, plus unlimited access to 7,000+ courses, Guided Projects, Specializations, and Professional Certificates
Learn anything
Explore any interest or trending topic, take prerequisites, and advance your skills
Save money
Spend less money on your learning if you plan to take multiple courses this year
Flexible learning
Learn at your own pace, move between multiple courses, or switch to a different course
Unlimited certificates
Earn a certificate for every learning program that you complete at no additional cost
Frequently Asked Questions

When will I have access to the lectures and assignments?

What will I get if I subscribe to this Specialization?

    Is financial aid available?

More questions? Visit the Learner Help Center.
Coursera Footer
Coursera

    About
    What We Offer
    Leadership
    Careers
    Catalog
    Coursera Plus
    Professional Certificates
    MasterTrack® Certificates
    Degrees
    For Enterprise
    For Government
    For Campus
    Become a Partner
    Coronavirus Response

Community

    Learners
    Partners
    Developers
    Beta Testers
    Translators
    Blog
    Tech Blog
    Teaching Center

More

    Press
    Investors
    Terms
    Privacy
    Help
    Accessibility
    Contact
    Articles
    Directory
    Affiliates

Mobile App
Download on the App Store
Get it on Google Play
Logo of Certified B Corporation
© 2022 Coursera Inc. All rights reserved.

    Coursera Facebook
    Coursera Linkedin
    Coursera Twitter
    Coursera YouTube
    Coursera Instagram


